Economic constraints prevent more than one
third of the global population
from affording a healthy diet.
What can we do to help these people?
We found that soybean is cold and drought resistant,
high in protein and healthy fats.
It can also improve soil quality,
make it one of the best choices for cultivation
in impoverished areas.
We are delighted to see the potential of soybeans
in malnutrition-
poverty dilemma.
How about transform soybeans to
kill two birds with one stone?
Nodule is a dense structure at the roots of soybeans,
featuring a natural microaerobic environment,
which is precious,
because microaerobic
nutrient is expensive for its demanding production.
We decided to make use of it
by producing microaerobic nutrients within it.
So what we could actually produce?
Inspired by an interview,
we pay attention to omega-3 PUFA,
which includes EPA and DHA in fish oil.
Instead of catching deep-sea fish,
why not use our "Nododule Factory"?
We plan to engineer
rhizobia living in the nodule to produce EPA
and DHA, turning nodule into an intelligent factory.
With this idea, we carry out the following experiments
excitedly.
We chose a kind of rhizobium, Sinorhizobium fredii
CCBAU45436 as chassis,
building up a set
of regulation module in response to the changes of
nitrogen and oxygen.
Meanwhile, we selected genes encoding PUFA
synthase and dipeptidyl aldehyde
to preliminarily demonstrate the feasibility of
"microarabic factory".
In order to improve its efficiency,
we adjusted the expression of relevant genes
and
designed the suicide circuit to avoid chassis leakage.
PHB is an endogenous metabolite
of our chassis with high expression, phaC2
deletion causes decline
of PHB synthesis in the chassis,
so that the content of acetyl-CoA
can relatively increase,
providing sufficient substrate for the synthesis of PUFA.
glnK promoter is an endogenous
inducible promoter that is activated under
low nitrogen conditions.
nifH promoter is also endogenous and inducible
and is activated under
low oxygen conditions.
We introduced the CRISPRi system to form the "AND gate"
for more accurate regulation.
The non-cleavage-active Cas12k protein
binds reversibly to
target sequences under the guidance of sgRNA.
It physically blocks transcription without cutting
DNA.
Signaling is used to achieve binding and dissociation
of Cas12k regulating gene expression and repression.
When rhizobia are free
under high oxygen and low nitrogen,
or when rhizobia perform nitrogen-fixing function
by symbiotic colonization with plant roots
under low oxygen and low nitrogen,
the glnK promoter initiates the
expression of sgRNA-GFP,
which guides the constitutively expressed Cas12k
to bind to the gfp
gene sequences,
thus blocking the initiation
of downstream genes by the nifH promoter.
And in the later stage of plant growth,
supplemental application of
nitrogen fertilizer
elevates the nitrogen content in the soil,
which made the activity of glnK promoter decrease.
The expression of sgRNA-GFP decreases as a result.
So Cas12k is unable to effectively deter downstream
gene expression,
thus realizing the initiation of downstream
synthetic gene expression by the nifH promoter
under hypoxic conditions.
pfa biosynthetic gene cluster encodes PUFA
synthases catalyzing synthesis of DHA,
EPA and many other polyunsaturated fatty acids.
It is the downstream gene of regulation module.
We also chose the dipeptide aldehyde synthesis gene
bgc33-sfp as downstream gene
for verification.
In the design of the suicide circuit,
we used CRISPRi system and the endogenous toxin
antitoxin system
of the chassis.
vapC encodes toxin, and vapB encodes antitoxin.
The expression of these
genes is regulated by the promoters nifH and glnK.
Under high oxygen
expression of vapB is suppressed, and under low nitrogen
the CRISPRi system is activated to suppress
expression of vapC.
When rhizobium escapes from nodules to the high-nitrogen,
high oxygen external environment
vapC will be expressed normally,
while vapB expression is suppressed by the high
oxygen conditions.
Toxin level exceeds antitoxin
ultimately triggers suicide.
In PHB deletion module,
we successfully constructed the recombination plasmid
and introduced it into chassis.
We used transmission electron microscope to observe
bacterial solution of the platform stage.
the wild-type contained obvious PHB particles,
while ∆phaC2 mutant contained no or less of that.
Later, TLC identified that deletion of PHB
could increase raw material of fatty acids.
we also carried out plant system validation.
there were no significant differences between
wild-type and mutant-inoculated plants
on phenotype. We
identifies that deletion of phaC2
did
not affect the normal functions of rhizobium and the
growth of plants.
To test the efficiency of the regulation module,
we detected the fluorescence intensity.
We transfer the plasmid for dipeptide
aldehyde synthesis in E. coli
into S. fredii and conducted plant experiment.
for phenotypes and nodule sections
there were no significant differences, which
identified that the synthesis module did not stress
the normal functions of rhizobium.
Afterwards,
RT-qPCR and direct mass spectrometr
dipeptide aldehyde was synthesized successfully.
To verify the feasibility of phaC2 deletion and PUFA
cluster transfer in Sinorhizobium,
we use the flux balance analysis.
it relies on previous studies instead of
detailed kinetic parameters,
simulating the complete
metabolic Passway and predicting the yield of DHA.
By calculating the relevant reaction equations,
we got the result of maximizing DHA
yield, which is very substantial.
We successfully constructed the recombination
plasmid containing pfa
biosynthetic gene cluster,
and transported into our chassis.
RT-qPCR was employed to quantify transcription
level of the gene cluster.
We also conducted TLC and gas chromatography,
whose results are in line with the RT-qPCR,
confirming that our chassis
can perform synthesis function normally.
Since we want to increase the productivity of EPA and
DHA,  we aim to find the most influential factors
by modeling.
Considering DHA synthesis will change over time
and qualitative analysis is required
the ODEs model meets the need,
which replaces the previous FBA model.
After listing equations based on design,
we plotted the time dependent curve of DHA yield
with a sensitive analysis
to investigate the main affecting factors.
It was found that the activity of the PUFA synthase
has a significant effect on the results
and is regulated by nitrogen,
so a nitrogen absorption model is established.
based on the analysis,
we should continuously adjust the
nitrogen concentration in the future
and make the peak of nitrogen absorption coincide
with the synthetic stage.
To verify the feasibility of the suicide circuit,
we simulated the mechanism of it using ODEs
and took the time factor into account.
Then, we constructed
equations for four different conditions,
including corresponding parameters
to simulate the actual situation.
By calculating the net amount of toxin VapC,
we found that
transferred Sinorhizobium indeed accumulates
VapC
only after escaping, which leads to death.
Finally,
we fitted the four conditions in chronological order,
and the amount of net toxin changed as expected.
We utilized the fluorescence
expression intensity and found that
under low oxygen,
different
nitrogen concentrations significantly affected the
expression intensity
of fluorescent proteins.
It verifies
that the CRISPRi system functioned properly.
Then we added different concentrations of ammonia
Chloride to the strains with suicide circuit plasmid,
and investigated the changes of living bacteria after
same interval under hyperoxic conditions.
After a period of time,
the OD 600 value of the bacterial solution
with additional nitrogen source
showed a decreasing trend
and the decreasing trend was more obvious
with the increase of the nitrogen.
Under this experimental condition,
it can be considered that
our suicide
circuit can be regulated by nitrogen concentration
and the overall construction is successful.
Besides, under high nitrogen and high oxygen conditions,
colonies cultured for five days
showed a transparent color
differed from those
cultured for three days in milky white color,
this is the most direct
evidence that the suicide
circuit was successfully constructed.
In conclusion,
we successfully build a sensitive regulation system
with a coherent group of parts.
Future can build upon this system
to diversify the downstream products,
turning the nodule factory into a
biological factory with infinite
possibilities,
exactly the N. FACTORY!
What's more, we found that lots of team
had a similar need to predict yield,
so we created a software POMPC based on the DHA model.
By using it,
we can input substrate concentrations and get
the dynamics of product in each pathway.
The software not only
solves the difficulties of our project,
but also helps other teams concerned
with the complex metabolic pathways
to analyze substrate interactions.
In addition,
we have constructed a nodule formation model
to assist other teams who are interested in rhizobia
to gain a deeper understanding.
Furthermore, we also constructed the NtrC protein-
DNA docking model
to verify the feasibility of nitrogen regulation
in other rhizobia,
expanding the extensibility of our Nodule Factory.
Human practices matters at every stage of our project,
helping
bring Nodule Factory from laboratory to reality.
From the initial idea to the completion of the project,
we conducted extensive interviews and benefited a lot.
Our final idea
was confirmed by the African Agriculture
Extension Worker.
Meanwhile, the iGEM philosophy has
never advocated building castles in the air,
we paid attention to the downstream,
imagine the final product form S. fredii inoculant
with matched instructions.
What's more, we designed a supporting machine.
By reviewing the literature,
we found that nutrients
in nodules could be transported to soybeans
through transmembrane transport,
which could make a leap in soybean quality
and extend a series of soy products
in the future.
Our products
are affordable nutrition for low-income people,
and the professor who makes soy ice cream said
he would like to use our soy as a raw material.
Africa usually produces soybean oil,
if we can produce high
value added soy products such as ice cream,
it will stimulate the local
economy and perform the processing industry chain.
In addition,
we contribute to these sustainable development goals.
Nodule factory can solve the dual dilemma of
malnutrition and low income
from four dimensions.
It
provides a novel paradigm for microaerobic production
within nodule by diversifying downstream products.
It is an inclusive production
platform that can be continuously
updated and developed.
Compared to general microbial fermentation,
it eliminates the need for additional
equipment and human resources.
It avoids chemical pollution,
so it is an eco-friendly,
responsible and sustainable production workshop.
It develops the nodule economy,
enhancing individual income and promoting
local agriculture development.
Governments can improve the economy with
lower public spending.
By producing relative expensive microaerobic nutrients
at low coast, it promotes affordable and healthy diets,
contributing to reduce
stunted children and increase breast milk
nutrition, helping eliminate
malnutrition and reduce the low income population,
so as to help
narrow health disparities and reduce social inequality.
In the future,
people will be able to eat
cheap nutrients produced by nodules,
growing soybeans will become more profitable,
soybeans will enrich the land, soy products
factories will mushroom,
and then people will become healthy and wealthy!